>> Kadi Kraman: For
the last bit of coding work,
let's do something that very much wouldn't
be possible without development builds.
We're going to add a quick
action to our app.
So a quick action is basically a little
dev menu that opens when you press and
hold your app icon.
We scroll down to the quick action's demo
here, you'll see what it looks like.
So, we're going to add
a little option here,
where you can add a plant
directly from your home screen.
So when you open this, it will open
the new plant module directly, and
you can start filling it out.
>> Kadi Kraman: For this,
let's install expo-quick actions
with MPX expo-install expo-quick actions.
>> Kadi Kraman: And for this,
we'll need to use the config plugin.
So, recall that config plugin
is used to add things to
your native project during pre-build.
In this case,
we actually need the config plugin for
this little leaf icon on Android.
So, on iOS,
this leaf icon is an icon from SF Symbols.
So the quick action items on
iOS use SF Symbol icons, and
you can use any of the symbols that
are available here and a leaf exists.
>> Kadi Kraman: For Android, however,
we need to pass in an image
that gets bundled with the app.
>> Kadi Kraman: So here is a leaf that I
made earlier, let's download the leaf.
>> Kadi Kraman: And let's move it into our
assets folder, so it's in my downloads,
move it into my assets folder,
and then in my app.json.
So you should already have x-ray quick
actions here, so this would have been
added automatically when we runthe
expogo still works with quick-actions.
But we want to pass in some
additional parameters, so
let's convert this into an array.
The first item will be expo-quick-actions,
and then the second will be an object, and
it will be Android icons,
you can pass in, you can do multiple.
I will just do the one, and
we're going to name this leaf.
So this name is what you're going
to be using to query it by.
And we'll pass in a foreground image,
and this foreground image will be
the link to our leaf icon, so assets,
leaf.png, and the background color,
let's leave it at as white.
>> Kadi Kraman: Lovely.
>> Kadi Kraman: So now, we will need
to pre-build our projects again.
So, every time you add a library or
edit anything in your app.json,
you'll need to run pre-build
again to regenerate your
native projects, and
then run iOS or run Android.
So it is the script here
to rebuild the native apps.
>> Kadi Kraman: So
let's do mpx expo prebuild clean.
I will prebuild both at the same time.
>> Speaker 2: We didn't have to do that
with expo go because that was already
pre-built you were just using
the JavaScript bundle, that's the reason-
>> Kadi Kraman: Exactly, so
expo go has a bunch of libraries
already pre-installed ready to use.
And that's why, for example here,
if we started with a blank
typescript template and
we converted it into a development
build and then loaded it on our app.
And then, we installed expo router,
we would need to do a prebuilt.
>> Kadi Kraman: So,
we didn't go because it was pre-installed.
And that's actually also the reason
that when you're starting a new project,
it makes sense for the first,
just a little bit of time,
maybe a couple of hours or maybe a couple
of days when you're just getting started
like installing a bunch of libraries.
It is quite quick to do it in Expo Go for
that reason.
And then, you read something like,
I need to use, I don't know,
Expo Quick Actions, or Vision Camera, or
Custom Fonts, or I want to actually see
an app icon instead of the Expo Go icon.
And then you'll do a development build.
But then,
by that point your project is mature and
you're not rebuilding it natively so
often.
So, once it's a mature project, you
will do it maybe a couple times a week.
>> Kadi Kraman: And now,
we want to run Android and or run iOS.
So mpx-expo, run android, and
I will do iOS on another tab.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, now we have both
our iOS and Android project rebuilt.
Great, okay, so
now when we press and hold,
this is what we're starting with.
We just have our default options here.
The way we add them is using
a use effect in a layout file.
So let's go to our root layout file,
so app layout.
And here, we want to add a use effect.
>> Kadi Kraman: And we only want to run
this once when the app first loads.
And let's import
star as Quick Actions
from expo-quick
actions,
>> Kadi Kraman: And
we'll do quick actions set tems, and
this will take an array of the items you
want to add, so you can have multiples.
I think there's recommendations to
not add more than three or four, so
don't go crazy, but one or
two is definitely fine.
So, this will actually
be an array of items,
so we will add the title, add a plant, and
the icon, so this is why we did our
whole adding of the Android icon.
So we'll do, if platform.OS,
if we are on iOS,
then we're going to use symbols
this is just special syntax,
it's got autocomplete that's amazing.
I was not expecting this,
so symbol leaf, well,
it actually works as well,
this is amazing I guess.
So this is one of the SF Symbols for iOS.
And on Android, we are using leaf.
And this leaf comes from our
config plugin, which is here.
So this is what we named our special icon
that we passed in with the config plugin.
So that's why we're using leaf.
>> Kadi Kraman: Let's give it just an ID.
>> Kadi Kraman: There we go.
So, it does mean that the user
needs to open the app for
the quick action to be configured.
And that is to be expected,
that is totally fine.
So, let's reload.
>> Kadi Kraman: So
not sure if I ever mentioned it, but
if I'm working on simulators,
then you use Ctrl command Z on iOS.
And I think that's the shake gesture,
it will bring up the dev menu.
So I think command R.
No, command R records,
everyone's done that before,
so I always use Ctrl Command Z,
it's just a reflex, but
on Android emulator is actually
different it is Command M to reload.
So that's a fun fact.
Actually I have another fact about
these because I have both of these open
right now.
Who knows what's the difference
between a simulator and an emulator?
So for our purposes, the thing that's
important is that an emulator emulates
the whole hardware environment as well.
Well including the restrictions so
an Android emulator will have as
much memory as the actual Android
phone whereas an iOS simulator only
simulates the iOS environment and
in our case the reason it's important
is that actually it has access to
the underlying device memory so
if you're ever debugging a memory
issue on iOS, then it is preferable to
do it on an actual device because
the simulator will be more powerful than
a real device of the same kind,
because it's using your max memory.
So fun fact.
Okay, so now we're instead of my
quick action, so if I press and
hold, I'm actually seeing this add
a plant option, which is awesome.
And then I open this and
it opens my app and
not my add plant model, which is annoying.
So So
how can I get it to open the new modal?
>> Kadi Kraman: When we set the params,
set the items for the quick action.
We can also give it additional params.
So let's add a params
which is an object and
let's give it an href
to where we want to go.
In our case,
let's go to the new tab or new modal.
And if you're not using expo router,
you can use hooks
to manually hook into the event of
coming to the app from a quick action.
But actually because
we're using Expo Router,
we have a handy utility function
that handles this automatically.
So we can use useQuick.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay,
I guess I'll have to import it manually.
So we want to import useQuickActionRouting
from expo-quick-action -actions/router.
>> Kadi Kraman: And this is just
a convenience function specifically for
expo router.
And we call this, it's a hook, so
we call this in our route layout file.
And if you pass in params with an href so
the naming is important here.
Then it'll automatically
link to that page.
>> Kadi Kraman: So let's make sure that we
reload it so that the effect has rerun.
>> Kadi Kraman: Hopefully,
if I do add a plant it opens the modal.
Let's try this on, whoops,
double click that instead.
So let's try this on Android as well,
add a plant.
It opens the modal.
That's really exciting.
So we've now deep linked into our
application from a quick action.
I really love building this because
it's something that it feels so native.
It's kind of amazing that we
built this with JavaScript.